## Math PPT

* Hi all, today I am going to present on conformal transformation.

----

* A conformal mapping, also called a conformal map, conformal transformation, angle-preserving transformation, or biholomorphic map, is a transformation w=f(z) that preserves local angles.

* Conformal map preserves both angles and shape of infinitesimal small figures but not necessarily their size.

* More formally, a map ￼ is called conformal (or angle-preserving) at ￼ if it preserves oriented angles between curves through ￼, as well as their orientation, i.e. direction.

-----
* Conformal mapping based 3D face recognition.

* Face is potentially the best biometrics for people identification related applications for its non instructiveness, contactless and socially well acceptance.

* Unfortunately, face recognition in 2D proves to be a very challenging task as intra-class variations, dues to factors as diverse as pose, lighting conditions, facial expressions, etc., are often much greater than inter-class variations.

* While 3D face models are theoretically insensible to lighting condition changes, they still require to be pose normalized before 3D facial shape-based matching. Moreover, as 3D face models describe 3D facial shapes, they are also more sensible to facial expression changes as compared to their 2D counterpart. 

----

* The proposed approach makes use of conformal UV parameterization for mapping purpose and Shape Index decomposition for similarity measurement. Indeed, according to conformal geometry theory, each 3D surface with disk topology can be mapped onto a 2D domain through a global optimization, resulting in a diffeomorphism (isomorphism of smooth manifolds), i.e., one-to-one and onto.

* This allows us to reduce the 3D surface matching problem to a 2D image matching one by comparing the corresponding 2D conformal geometric maps.

* Once this preprocessing carried out, the 2D UV conformal parameterization of a 3D face model can be calculated. Face Figure shows the result of this preprocessing step. As we can see, closing the mouth while using geodesic distance for cropping 3D faces leads to a more consistent outer boundary, especially in the chin region, displaying roughly the same border the mouth being opened or closed.

* Facial conformal maps generated by the harmonic energy minimization from 3D face models can have different size and 2D rotation. To facilitate matching 2D facial conformal maps, they need to be size and rotation normalized. For rotation normalization we make use of the two inner eyes corners mapped on the conformal map then rotate the underlying conformal map so that both the two inner eye corners lie at the horizontal line. Once the pose corrected, the size of the underlying conformal map is also normalized, using the radius min-max rule.

* (2D)square PCA a variant of PCA with better performance, is used for feature dimension reduction and similarity computation.

* Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is a well-known feature extraction and data representation technique however for 2D images it has one serious drawback, 2D image matrix have to be previously transformed to 1D vector by columns or rows concatenation. This type of concatenation into 1D vector often leads to a high-dimensional vector space, where it is difficult to evaluate covariance matrix accurately due to its large size and relatively small number of training samples.

* Resulting conformal maps are rasterized.

* Rasterization is the task of taking an image described in a vector graphics format (shapes) and converting it into a raster image (a series of pixels, dots or lines, which, when displayed together, create the image which was represented via shapes).


* We're missing something very important, that is facial expression.

----

* Variations by facial expressions are a major challenge in 3D face recognition. Facial conformal maps so far generated have reduced a 3D shape matching problem to a 2D one while preserving facial topology. However, they are still facial expression sensitive. In order to decrease such a sensibility, we propose to make use of Mobius transformation to ’compress’ facial elastic regions, i.e. the lower part of a face model. For this purpose, the center of a conformal map is moved to the nose tip of the face. Then Mobius transformation is carried out on UV conformal coordinates.

* The goal of this Geometry-based approach for face recognition, using mouth as inner boundary and Mobius transformation to ’compress’ facial expression sensitive regions. The major advantage of such an approach is to convert an initially 3D facial shape matching problem to a 2D one, thus making available all the techniques so far developed in 2D for 3D face recognition.
